<table>
    <tr>
        <td><a href="https://maboinjd.github.io/Tri-3-Erik-Peterson/">Main Page</a></td>
        <td><a href="https://maboinjd.github.io/Tri-3-Erik-Peterson/testprep">Data Structure </a></td>
        <td><a href="https://maboinjd.github.io/Tri-3-Erik-Peterson/testprep">Test Prep </a></td>
        <td><a href="https://maboinjd.github.io/Tri-3-Erik-Peterson/createtask">Create Task</a></td>
    </tr>
</table>
<hr>

# <u>5.1 - 5.2 Notes</u>

## <u>5.1 - Beneficial and Harmful Effects</u>
- The way people complete tasks - change to incorporate new computing innovations
- Not all effects are anticipated in advance
- Can be viewed both beneficial and harmful
- Advances in computing - increased creativity in other fields
- Consider unintended consequences of your computing innovation
Rapid sharing can result impacts beyond intention or control of programmer
## <u>5.2 - Digital Divide</u>
- “Digital Divide” - Differing access to computing and internet
- Group and individuals affected, issues of equity and influence
- Socioeconomic
- Geographic
- Demographic
- Countries
- Affected by the actions of individuals, organizations, governments

# <u>5.1 Actions</u>
## 1. 
1. Beneficial in that there is easy access to entertainment such as television and video games that are more entertaining than before. Harmful effects may be that people become easily addicted to these new games and spend less time doing other things. 
2. Social media and more personalization so you can share with friends and family on what you're doing. Harmful in the sense that the app or others can possibly collect private data on you. 
3. More access to information for research and other topics. Harmful in the sense that more information means also easy access to misinformation, possibly misinforming more people at the same time. 

## 2.
In my life and others that I know I believe that dopamine is real, and usually is the chemical that motivates me to do things and not get burnt out doing them.

# <u>5.2 Actions</u>
## 1.
Someone can empower themselves in a digital world by first accessing a digital device such as a smartphone or computer. From there it is up to the user to learn and configure how to work this device and also access the internet.
## 2.
You can simply empower others by lending him/her a device and teaching them how to use it. You can also aid this person by introducing them new information and also introducing places to where you can learn more. 
## 3
There is red tape on digital empowerment whether it be because of economical issues or even political issues.  Within certain nations there are economic issues that restrain the common person from obtaining technology. At Del Norte even there are restrictions on what you can and can't access while on their WiFi. While to prevent a student from viewing unsafe websites, it also blocks all websites it does not recognize.
